All right, let's get to our final
exercise, which is for part six.
So now you can see we not only
have this whole big long list of,
includes up top but we also have ifdef
Linux here for our sys slash send file.
We're gonna build this thing,
that was 5 again, and
I'm still listening on port 8080,
so let's do that.
Great listening on port 8080, so
now you can see if I refresh and
try to load the front end masters page it
doesn't work at all, that's okay, though.
That's because we haven't
completed the exercise yet.
So right now we're seeing a blank page,
but when we're done with the exercise,
we will actually see something
much nicer than a blank page,
which is a working front
end masters homepage.
Okay, so this one, unlike the others,
does not have a bunch of different
things to jump around and do.
If you want to,
you can spend some time looking
through some of the source code here.
I did decide to use the pound define
style here instead of constant,
just in case you are running one of those
Linux distros that doesn't support it.
But if you're on macOS,
you could just do constant here.
We're doing the, jpeg,
css png, jpej, JS, etc.
We're doing the fancy
switch thing right here.
All the stuff that we talked about, and
now we are using that to actually
send back this content type header.
So you may recall this was the last
missing piece we had at the end of
the previous section where it wasn't
recognizing like any of the CSS or
anything like that.
The reason that nothing is loading is that
the one thing that we are missing here is
that I have not actually
implemented the call to send file.
So this is the only section of the thing
that requires any modification.
So the entire exercise is basically
just go check out the docs for
these and try to implement the two
different calls to send file.
Worth noting that something we are doing
here is we are actually making
these variables of byte sent and
send failed locally.
Now you got to remember here that these
are not actually different scopes.
This is not like there's no
curly braces around this.
These are basically out dented and
only one of the other is going to get
actually included in here, which is
relevant because we end up using it later.
But they are indented because
they're inside the ifdef.
So that's what's going on there is like
we're defining one or the other here.
They do actually have different types,
which is kind of funny.
But nevertheless, we can still like do
subtraction on them because C is loosey
goosey with its integer conversions,
fortunately for our sake, in this case.
So basically, just need to go look
at the docs for these two things.
And I will warn you this, well especially
the MacOS 1 is a little bit funky,
but just take a few minutes and go through
and see if you can get it working.
>> Richard Feldman: So for
this one, unlike the others,
I'm actually just gonna just walk you
through the solution rather than typing
out by hand.
Mostly because all the typing out by
hand accomplishes is essentially,
I go look at the docs, and
then look at what we're doing.
So essentially, I want to just mainly talk
through the differences between these two.
So the Linux version, as you see from
the docs, if you went and looked those up,
we send the two file descriptors first.
Now, if you look at the MacOS docs,
one of the things that's most
striking about the difference here
is that the Linux one just returns how
many bytes were successfully sent.
So this is very similar to what we saw
with like read will return how many bytes
B Bytes were actually read.
Also, if you like try to write,
potentially it might not write all
the bytes if the thing that it's trying
to write to had some sort of limit setup.
Same kind of deal here,
where basically it's saying, hey,
here is you told me that you
wanted to send this many bytes,
but it's possible that I
sent fewer bytes than that.
Now this is very important to know,
because we actually do want to
potentially put these in a loop.
So this is actually how we're
doing the chunking here.
We're basically saying Ok,
if you didn't send all the bytes that
I told you to send, that's fine.
I'm just going to decrement,
how many bytes we have remaining to send.
Go back to the top of the loop and
just keep doing it again over and
over again until all the bytes
finally get successfully sent.
Now how do we get this
actual byte sent value?
This is one of the ways where Linux and
macros APIs differ.
So in the Linux one,
send file just returns it.
And then our job to detect whether or
not sending failed is the usual check for
the return value was -1.
If it was sent failed,
then Ok, fine, we break.
This is a pretty
unfortunate scenario where,
if this were a production HTTP server,
as opposed to just a little local one.
We might wanna try to do some extra work,
to try to more gracefully
handle these errors.
But basically, in this case,
because we're doing the send,
what's happening here is that if we
already sent some number of bytes.
Well, the first bytes that we sent at the
very beginning of the of the thing that
we're sending over
the network are 200 okay?
Because as far as we know,
by the time we got here, we're all set.
We're good, we're ready to rock.
Unfortunately, it turns out that things
stopped being okay partway through,
because sending actually itself fails.
It's too late, we already sent the 200.
So the browser's, great,
everything was fine,
and then it just doesn't
get the rest of the file.
We can try to gracefully handle this
by basically doing something along
the lines of Ok, well, we remember
that we already do the partial send.
So let's actually go and retry it and
try to send the rest of
the bytes as best we can.
Or maybe we try to do something like send
some sort of extra content that comes
back and just displays a big, no,
it was truncated message on the screen.
And then maybe we also detect,
well if we didn't send anything yet,
if we were in the first
iteration of this loop.
Now we can just go ahead and
send a 500, so
lots of potential ways we could try
to make this error handling better.
This is not really specific to send file.
This is just in general.
If we're writing to the socket,
and whether it's via send file or
via right and that operation fails after
we've already sent some amount of data,
we're going to potentially
have this problem.
But yeah, so we need to know whether
sending fail and we also need to know how
many bytes were sent and the MacOS API for
this or the the BSC one.
Very different, so
here we're actually doing
basically the number of bytes that were
sent is actually equal to stats.st,
size, or at least we're assuming
that as the starting point.
And then we send the address of that, and
basically it will use that both for
getting what is the actual size?
What is the actual number of
bytes that you want to send.
And then also, when we call send file, it
will, after reading that to see how many
bytes we want to send, it will override
it with how many bytes it actually sent.
Again, funky C APIs.
[LAUGH] I look at this and I say, I think
the Linux one makes more sense to me.
This seems nicer to use, but the BSD
authors decided to do it this way, and so
if you want to do it on MacOS,
this is what you got to use.
The other notable difference here is that
there's a couple of extra flags here.
So this version of sendfile is more
configurable than this version.
Now, this is an example of sometimes
operating systems will add new
functionality that's not available
in other operating systems.
A classic example of this that
happens today is IOU ring.
You may have heard of this.
This is something that's
available in Linux.
It's very nice for certain types
of high performance IO operations,
especially over the network.
It's just not available in Mac OS,
they don't have a direct
equivalent of IOU ring.
And so if you're trying to write a cross
platform like networking library,
that uses IOU ring,
what you end up with is.
If dev on Linux is huge because IOU ring
is very different in terms of how it sets
up its abstractions for
doing this type of network stuff,
then the other ways that
other alternatives use it.
And so there it's not just two lines
of code, it's a very big difference.
And these little differences in arguments
that we see here are a much smaller
example of that.
Where it's I don't really know what
these options do, but clearly Mac OS
supports some degree of additional
configuration that the Linux one does,
because it's strictly
sending more arguments over.
Okay, so at the end of this,
we do that and then we've actually set,
I've sent all the stuff that we want,
very cool.
I'm just gonna copy this over
here from the solutions.
And now, finally,
we have our index, the root page.
This still works.
If I click on the blog link,
this still works.
And the cool part is, I've downloaded
this locally, this is basically a copy
of the Frontend Masters website that
I just downloaded all the HTML and
CSS and all the fonts and
everything into my local directories.
And there it is, beautiful.
The entire frontendmasters.com
website served locally, blazing fast.
[LAUGH] See about 300 lines of
code that we built from scratch
in the course of this workshop using
no third party dependencies, just raw,
close to the metal operating system stuff.
And it all works, look at that.